Now the goal we are trying to reach here is this,
imagine a region of interest around a target vehicle in the left lane.
The sensor is here, we're looking at this vehicle.
While this region might be perfectly around the entire vehicle,
there will be areas in which other objects are
visible from the perspective of the sensors.
Such as, for example, the vehicle or the front of it and the group in step three
defines from this object and this object will
be associated with this target vehicle, which is not what we want.
So one very effective and quick way to avoid this would be to simply
count the number of regions of interest by which lidar points are enclosed.
In case there is only a single region of interest, does not trouble at all.
In case of multiple ROIs,
we simply ignore the lidar point and do not associate this with any other RI.
So we will lose the point, that's true.
But on the other hand, what we get is the clean 3D object in turn,
which is not a mixture of several objects as it would be now.
So let's take a look in the code how this can be done.
So let's take a look at how the clustering of lidar points
using bounding boxes from yellow object detection can be done.
So the first thing we do here in
the run clustering method which is what you would call in this example,
as we read the lidar points from a file, from this one here.
Then we read the bounding boxes from another file which is this one here.
Both files have been generated by the code of the final project,
which I have used to process the image sequence which you already know
from the highway scenario where the vehicle in front of us is slowly approaching.
We have vehicles in the left lane and a truck in the right lane.
So that's the data we see here.
Once we have loaded lidar points as well as the bounding boxes,
we can call the function cluster lidar with ROI.
The idea here is we input bounding boxes which are
rectangles regions of interest in the image and we input lidar points,
then we project the lidar points into the image and we
group all the lidar points belonging to a specific bounding box to this bounding box.
So once this has been done here,
assuming we have lidar points everywhere in the scene,
every bounding box in this vector here will
contain specific lidar points which belong to this bounding box.
We can then display those bounding boxes and the lidar points by looping
all the bounding boxes and should there be
any lidar points within the bounding box which is verified by this line here,
then we simply display this isolated 3D object in a top view perspective.
The idea here is now to avoid that we have this mixing of 3D objects,
which happens when lidar point falls into two different bounding boxes.
So we have this example,
we have discussed it in section.
If there are any points in the left lane vehicle which are enclosed by
a bounding box which belongs to the first car and also maybe to the second car,
those lidar points now will not be displayed any longer to avoid those grouping errors.
Let's see if this works and how this can be done.
So let's take a look at cluster lidar with ROI.
This is what's called here.
We have a vector of bounding boxes,
we have a vector of lidar points,
and the first thing we do is we load the calibration data
into OpenCV matrices and we do so with the same code which you have used before,
the only difference here is for convenience to be a bit shorter,
I have put those lengthy lines where we simply
copy and paste the calibration information from
the kitty file into the respective variables,
into this function here locked integration data.
Just makes the code a little bit more legible.
But look it up if you have doubts on how this actually has been performed.
Okay. Let's continue for now.
Once we leave this line here,
we have the calibration matrix for
intrinsic data for rectifying which [inaudible] left and right camera,
as well as for extrinsic data which is rotation and translation,
which we will use to project lidar 3D point in space onto the image plane.
This is what's done here inside this for loop.
So again, it's the same code that you have already seen before.
We have a point in space,
capital X which is inhomogeneous coordinates which
we can simply create by adding a one here in the fourth component.
Then we project the lidar point onto the image plane into
the camera and the coordinates PT.x and PT.y,
those are pixel coordinates which we received after reconverting
the homogeneous coordinates in capital Y
into Euclidean coordinates by simply dividing them by the third component here.
Okay. Now what's happening here is we assume that not all the points at
the outer edges of our bounding box
belong to the vehicle which we actually want to observe.
This is why we are going to resize this bounding box.
We're going to make it a little bit smaller,
and the shrinking factor can be set to any value between zero and one.
Zero would be the original size and one would be a shrinking by a 100 percent.
But now we are shrinking it by 10 percent only.
So we're going to create a new bounding box which is
called smallerBox and this smallerBox is going to shrink
each bounding box which we get by iterating
over this vector of bounding boxes which we have passed to the function here.
So this follow [inaudible] of all the bounding boxes in the current image.
Then, we resize the bounding box by 10 percent,
which is done by those lines here.
Then in this line, we simply check if the smallerBox contains all the point.
Is it within the bounding box?
Now what we do here is we do not simply store away
this point and label it as belonging to this bounding box,
but what we do we push back this bounding box which is currently addressed
by the iterator IT2 into a vector which is called enclosing boxes.
If you look at the beginning of this function,
we have this vector here,
which is basically a vector which holds iterators over bounding boxes.
So the idea is to check for
each point whether it has been enclosed by one or multiple boxes.
So if a point is being enclosed by multiple boxes,
what we will find is when we get to this position here,
this position is reached once we have looped over all the bounding boxes here.
Let's say a point has been enclosed by three bounding boxes.
We will have identified all those three bounding boxes by checking
in this line whether each box contains the respective point,
all three bounding box iterators would've been pushed into enclosing boxes.
So the size card of enclosing boxes in my example would be three.
If a key point has been enclosed by so many bounding boxes,
we cannot say to which 3D object it actually belongs.
So what we want to do now is we only want to keep
those points who only have been enclosed by a single bounding box.
In doing so, we will discard all points which are enclosed by several bounding boxes,
so we will lose some points but as lidar is
such a fantastic sensor giving us
so many hundreds of thousands of lidar points for a scene,
I think we can afford this.
So we are for safety reasons to really get accurate 3D object boundaries.
We're only keeping key points which have been enclosed by a single bounding box only.
Once we get here, we say, okay,
so the bounding box which we want to
associate the lidar point to is the first in the vector because we only have one.
Then we simply push back this lidar point which is
denoted by the iterator IT1 into this bounding box.
So after completing the loop over all key points and over all bounding boxes,
we will have associated all the lidar points whose projection is
only enclosed by a single bounding box
and addressed and pushed it into the respective bounding boxes.
So once we leave the function,
we have a set of bounding boxes and associated key points and the key points associated
are unique in the sense that they have not been enclosed by any other bounding box.
Let's see if this works.
So what you can see here is a top view visualization of the first object.
If you look into the lesson in HTML file,
you will find a screenshot which is similar to this one.
But in this screenshot which you will find,
there is an object in front of this object here,
which has been caused by including lidar points which belong to several bounding inboxes.
So what we can see here is a very clean object which has
no other lidar points except the ones belonging to this specific vehicle year.
If I pushed space,
we're going to move on to the next bounding box which is the truck in the right lane,
then we move on to this red truck in the left lane.
As you can see here, there are some lidar points missing.
There is a black area here with not a single lidar point present.
Actually, those lidar points are the ones having been cut out by
the overlap between the two bounding boxes in the original object detection in the image.
So our code seems to work with it perfectly.
We have a very clean cut out of all the lidar points belonging only to the red truck
and still we have so many points on the truck especially here on the rear side,
on the tail gauge that can very well afford to lose a few points here,
which are caused by a bounding box overlap.
Let's cycle through the code and through other bounding boxes until we reach the end.
This is the vehicle directly in front of us and as you can
see here at the far end of our scanning area,
we actually did group another vehicle into this bonding box.
This is something we can not so easily avoid.
At least not by image processing alone.
We could run some algorithms on
the lidar point cloud itself and look for spatial proximity,
but that's leading to far for this camera course and you
should also have addressed it already in the lidar course.
But what we have here is basically we have bounding box
around this vehicle and those lidar points are within
the same bounding box and they're not enclosed by
any other bounding box because this vehicle here is
not visible to the camera to the extent that we get an individual bounding box from it.
So this is something we cannot avoid but
actually we are only looking for computing the time to collision to the nearest object.
This object at the far end actually,
that's an object we don't care for currently.
We want to know whether this area here comes closer and how
quickly it does so and this vehicle is not keeping us from achieving this goal.
So now we can group lidar points by using camera based regions of interest. That's cool.
Now let's assemble everything to a set of
3D objects from which we can extract some useful properties.